revamp model your first process (#5598)
camunda/camunda-docs: docs/components/modeler/desktop-modeler/model-your-first-diagram.md

---
id: model-your-first-diagram
title: Model your first diagram
description: "Learn how to model your first diagram using Desktop Modeler and BPMN."
---

After starting [Desktop Modeler](./index.md), you can model your first BPMN diagram. Follow the steps below:

1. Create a [BPMN](../bpmn/bpmn.md) diagram by selecting **BPMN diagram**:

![empty application](./img/empty.png)

> The BPMN diagram will now open with a start event. [Events](/components/modeler/bpmn/events.md) in BPMN represent things that happen. A process can react to events and emit events, for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The BPMN diagram opens with a start event. [Events](/components/modeler/bpmn/events.md) in BPMN represent things that happen. A process can react to events and emit events, for example:
```

![new diagram](./img/new-diagram.png)

> 2. The basic elements of BPMN processes are [tasks](/components/modeler/bpmn/tasks.md), or atomic units of work composed to create a meaningful result. Click on the start event and select the rectangular task element. This creates a task directly following the start event, connected by an arrow. Next, double-click the task and type in a name for the element. For example, `My Service Task`.

Reviewer 2: `My Service Task` is a really bad name, as names shall be descriptive. 

I hence propose to remove the "For example My service task" line. You could instead add that names are meant to describe the activity being executed.

> 2. The basic elements of BPMN processes are [tasks](/components/modeler/bpmn/tasks.md), or atomic units of work composed to create a meaningful result. Click on the start event and select the rectangular task element. This creates a task directly following the start event, connected by an arrow. Next, double-click the task and type in a name for the element. For example, `My Service Task`.

Reviewer 3: Note that this detailed _append_ action description is not available with the Web Modeler ("new") context pad.

Reviewer 2: I guess we want to be descriptive (about the modeler) and teaching (regarding BPMN) at the same time?
